README.md, before:

Overview of the core behavioral tasks for LEVANTE. This repo contains details (and eventually, implementations) for each of these tasks, as well as the reasoning behind adaptations we make in order to shorten or adjust the difficulty to avoid ceiling/floor effects.

1. Matrix Reasoning [George]
	- Ravens CPM would be 40 Qs (~20 mins), short could be ~10 items?
	- 15-item short form SPM 9-12 and 13-16 have r=.89 and r=.93 https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjdp.12381 

2. Hearts & Flowers [EF: Inhibition] [George]
	- 3.5 is the youngest you can go
	- practice trials: 6 hearts, 6 flowers, 6 mixed (1500ms + 500 ISI)
	- test trials: 8 hearts, 12 flowers, 12 mixed (1500ms), 12 mixed (1250ms)
	- 6+6+6+8+12+12+12 = 62 trials * 2s/trial = 2min — can’t save a lot of time in the task! 30s instruction?

3. Corsi Block [EF: WM] [George]
	- age-appropriate grid size could be set
	- for pre-k, they only do the forward block (backward is too hard)

4. Something’s the Same [EF: Cognitive Flexibility]
	- asked Laura Kuhn for materials
	- Jelena says they'd like to combine the FIST and StS tasks to cover the full age range (meeting Mon, Dec 4)

5. TROG [Language: Grammar]
	- Test for Reception of Grammar (Bishop, 1982)
	- "multiple-choice test where the child listens to a spoken sentence and must select one of four pictures to match what is heard. Items are organised into 20 blocks of 4 items each, with the grammatical complexity of the blocks increasing as the test progresses"
	- there's a vocab recognition test for some of the words used in the TROG that we may want to skip (or include in vocab tests?)

6. Social Perception [SocialCog: Gaze Following] - external

7. ToM Battery [SocialCog: Theory of Mind] [Rebecca]
	- 2 booklets..so pick age-appropriate booklet? (Or subset of 1?)
	- food, snack, and dog content needs to be adapted

8. Emotional Face Recognition [Rebecca?]
	- add parametric noise to the RADIATE stimulus set (Conley et al. 2018)?
	Conley, M. I., Dellarco, D. V., Rubien-Thomas, E., Cohen, A. O., Cervera, A., Tottenham, N., & Casey, B. J. (2018). The racially diverse affective expression (RADIATE) face stimulus set. Psychiatry research.
	https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165178117321893


9. ROAR Vocab [Language: Vocab] - external? [Bria]
	- full version is 10 min; adaptive version should be 3 min


10. ROAR Single Word Reading [Language: Single-word Reading] - external?


11. ROAR Sentence Comprehension [Language: Reading Comprehension] - external?


12. Number Line Estimation [Math: Approximate Math] (ask Daniel Ansari?)
	- how many number lines (age-based?) and problems? (0-10, 0-100, 0-1000?)
	- e.g. one study used 28 stim: “The materials included a 15-cm line with one end marked with 0 and the other end marked with 100 (i.e., min = 0, max = 100) and 28 numbers: 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 14, 17, 18, 20, 21, 24, 25, 29, 33, 39, 42, 48, 50, 52, 57, 61, 64, 72, 79, 81, 84, 90, and 96. The number 20 and 50 were used for practice.”
	- propose to make fully adaptive, with age-based starting point
	- whole number only, or consider adding fraction number lines?
	- Daniel Ansari and Bob Siegler recommend using number-to-position (i.e., given a number, indicate position on number line) rather than position-to-number -- ideally, let's pilot both with school-aged children


13. EGMA [Math: Symbolic Math] [Rebecca]
	- Number Identification (say the number) - (60 s; 20 items total; stop if [1] child stops on an item for 5 seconds) VERBAL
	- Number Discrimination (which is bigger?) - (2 practice, 10 items; stop if child makes 4 successive errors)
	- Missing number (sequence) - (2 practice, 10 items)
	- Addition (level 1) - (20 items, 60 s; stop if [1])
	- Addition (level 2) - (5 items; stop if no correct answers on level 1, or [1])
	- Subtraction (level 1) - (20 items, 60 s; stop if [1])
	- Subtraction (level 2) - (5 items; stop if no correct answers on level 1, or [1])
	- word problems (nix due to overlap with language?) - (2 practice, 6 items)
	… - multiplication? (not part of EGMA, but add for oldest kids to avoid ceiling?)
	- total time: at least 5 minutes
	- total of 94 items (non-word problems)

14. Mental Rotation Task [Visual-Spatial] [George/Rebecca]
	- item bank combining ghost, Namibia, and 3D blocks stimuli rotated 0, 30, 60, 90, 120, 150, or 180 degrees 
	- propose to make fully adaptive
	- in a familiarization trial, we should show an animation (of rotating and matching), and frame as a 2AFC match-to-sample task
	- consider 3D stimuli (same/different) from [Ganis & Kievit (2015)](https://storage.googleapis.com/jnl-up-j-jopd-files/journals/1/articles/13/submission/proof/13-1-116-2-10-20150313.pdf): 

15. Child Survey Questions [Amy & Bobby]



Removed tasks:
	- MEFS (MN Executive Function Scale) [EF]
	- OxEd Language Screen [Language: Expressive] - external [$25/kid for pilot]

Commit message:

add Shepard & Metzler stimuli, update designs

README.md, after:

Overview of the core behavioral tasks for LEVANTE. This repo contains details (and eventually, implementations) for each of these tasks, as well as the reasoning behind adaptations we make in order to shorten or adjust the difficulty to avoid ceiling/floor effects.

1. Matrix Reasoning [George]
	- Ravens CPM would be 40 Qs (~20 mins), short could be ~10 items?
	- 15-item short form SPM 9-12 and 13-16 have r=.89 and r=.93 https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjdp.12381 

2. Hearts & Flowers [EF: Inhibition] [George]
	- 3.5 is the youngest you can go
	- practice trials: 6 hearts, 6 flowers, 6 mixed (1500ms + 500 ISI)
	- test trials: 8 hearts, 12 flowers, 12 mixed (1500ms), 12 mixed (1250ms)
	- 6+6+6+8+12+12+12 = 62 trials * 2s/trial = 2min — can’t save a lot of time in the task! 30s instruction?

3. Corsi Block [EF: WM] [George]
	- age-appropriate grid size could be set
	- for pre-k, they only do the forward block (backward is too hard)

4. Something’s the Same [EF: Cognitive Flexibility]
	- asked Laura Kuhn for materials
	- Jelena says they'd like to combine the FIST and StS tasks to cover the full age range (meeting Mon, Dec 4)

5. TROG [Language: Grammar]
	- Test for Reception of Grammar (Bishop, 1982)
	- "multiple-choice test where the child listens to a spoken sentence and must select one of four pictures to match what is heard. Items are organised into 20 blocks of 4 items each, with the grammatical complexity of the blocks increasing as the test progresses"
	- there's a vocab recognition test for some of the words used in the TROG that we may want to skip (or include in vocab tests?)

6. Social Perception [SocialCog: Gaze Following] - external

7. ToM Battery [SocialCog: Theory of Mind] [Rebecca]
	- 2 booklets..so pick age-appropriate booklet? (Or subset of 1?)
	- food, snack, and dog content needs to be adapted

8. Emotional Face Recognition [Rebecca?]
	- add parametric noise to the RADIATE stimulus set (Conley et al. 2018)?
	Conley, M. I., Dellarco, D. V., Rubien-Thomas, E., Cohen, A. O., Cervera, A., Tottenham, N., & Casey, B. J. (2018). The racially diverse affective expression (RADIATE) face stimulus set. Psychiatry research.
	https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165178117321893


9. ROAR Vocab [Language: Vocab] - external? [Bria]
	- full version is 10 min; adaptive version should be 3 min


10. ROAR Single Word Reading [Language: Single-word Reading] - external?


11. ROAR Sentence Comprehension [Language: Reading Comprehension] - external?


12. Number Line Estimation [Math: Approximate Math] (ask Daniel Ansari?)
	- how many number lines (age-based?) and problems? (0-10, 0-100, 0-1000?)
	- e.g. one study used 28 stim: “The materials included a 15-cm line with one end marked with 0 and the other end marked with 100 (i.e., min = 0, max = 100) and 28 numbers: 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 14, 17, 18, 20, 21, 24, 25, 29, 33, 39, 42, 48, 50, 52, 57, 61, 64, 72, 79, 81, 84, 90, and 96. The number 20 and 50 were used for practice.”
	- propose to make fully adaptive, with age-based starting point
	- whole number only, or consider adding fraction number lines?
	- Daniel Ansari and Bob Siegler recommend using number-to-position (i.e., given a number, indicate position on number line) rather than position-to-number -- ideally, let's pilot both with school-aged children


13. EGMA [Math: Symbolic Math] [Rebecca]
	- Number Identification (say the number) - (60 s; 20 items total; stop if [1] child stops on an item for 5 seconds) VERBAL
	- Number Discrimination (which is bigger?) - (2 practice, 10 items; stop if child makes 4 successive errors)
	- Missing number (sequence) - (2 practice, 10 items)
	- Addition (level 1) - (20 items, 60 s; stop if [1])
	- Addition (level 2) - (5 items; stop if no correct answers on level 1, or [1])
	- Subtraction (level 1) - (20 items, 60 s; stop if [1])
	- Subtraction (level 2) - (5 items; stop if no correct answers on level 1, or [1])
	- word problems (nix due to overlap with language?) - (2 practice, 6 items)
	… - multiplication? (not part of EGMA, but add for oldest kids to avoid ceiling?)
	- total time: at least 5 minutes
	- total of 94 items (non-word problems)

14. Mental Rotation Task [Visual-Spatial] [George/Rebecca]
	- item bank combining ghost, Namibia, and 3D blocks stimuli rotated 0, 30, 60, 90, 120, 150, or 180 degrees 
	- propose to make fully adaptive
	- in a familiarization trial, we should show an animation (of rotating and matching), and frame as a 2AFC match-to-sample task
	- consider 3D stimuli (same/different) from [Ganis & Kievit (2015)](https://storage.googleapis.com/jnl-up-j-jopd-files/journals/1/articles/13/submission/proof/13-1-116-2-10-20150313.pdf). 
	- 11/30/2023: added Shepard & Metzler stimuli from Mike (created by Talia Konkle?), which are black outlines on a white background.

15. Child Survey Questions [Amy & Bobby]
	- trying to standardize a 5-point positive/negative valence scale (emoji-based?)
	- questions are [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1sOQv3qVwK-DQeAcySgNDCjR1TTl6_Ij-GDArM8nBeWk/edit?usp=sharing), but not yet finalized



Removed tasks:
	- MEFS (MN Executive Function Scale) [EF]
	- OxEd Language Screen [Language: Expressive] - external [$25/kid for pilot]
